The Contract Manager was designed by mapping all of AMS2's content (as of March '26) to a timeline starting from the 60's to today. Of course, some data doesn't map cleanly and some cars only raced for one year (Formula HiTech Gen 1) while others would span decades (Formula Vee). To account for this, the timeline has been parsed into "Epochs" like 70's Gen 1 or 90's Gen 4. These are mapped to the appropriate Formula 1 car that raced in that epoch, since that is the pinnacle of racing and probably what everyone really wants to race.
Epochs are proken up into 3-year segments. All F1 generations will race for at least those 3 years. So while Formula V12 represents 1995 cars and should really only race for one year, in this app they will race for 3 years before moving on to the V10 era. 
All non-F1 content will be matched as close as is possible. It matches fairly well with only the Brazilian Stock Car series occupying non 3-year segments due to the number of cars Reiza released from 2019 to current. 
The content is also graded from Level 1 to 5, with only F1 and LMDh occupying Level 5.  The goal is to start with a Level 1 contract offer and work your way to the top (or not). Contracts are simply on a class level (so no specified car within a class, just a class, pick your favorite car). Perform well and you could be offered better (higher paying) contracts within that same level, or lower tiered contracts in higher leveled cars. You may have to be a pay driver if you want to move up and you don't have the reputation for a decent contract.
After each season,you enter your result and you get license points and reputation points. From there you are presented with contract offers for the next season. 
Once you get into Levels 3 and up, you could be offered multi-year contracts, so pay attention. It is possible to break a contract, but there is a financial and reputational penalty. If you are in a level 4 or 5 car and have a Tier 1 or 2 contract, you are also at risk of being fired for poor performance. 
There is a guide in the app suggesting how to structure the AI for your seasons. It is recommended to dynamically change the AI based on your relative performance to create challenging and meaningful races. There is also a recommendation on the season length and it is appropriate to the type of racing, but again, it is all at the user's own discretion. The earlier seasons in slower cars could be raced with fewer races to get to the meat of the content (though F-Junior cars are more fun than they should be).
The only real metric being saved is the player's salary. The earlier levels are typically not where you make your money, and some series offer no paying contracts at all. 
The career spans 21 seasons. In later years, the reputation points degrade over time, simulating the challenge older drivers have of maintaining top drivers. Though with good enough performances, one could stay on top till the end (Alonso, anyone?). 
